=head1 NAME

B<gristool> - grist greylist database managment tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

gristool.pl [B<OPTIONS>] [B<COMMAND>] B<arguments>...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Gristool> is part of the grist greylist policy server toolset. B<Gristool> provides a simplified 
interface to the greylist database and is required for common database maintaince procedures.

This man page was written very late one night, or early one morning depedning how you want to look
at it. A rewrite and restructure is pending but the beef of the information is acurate, and if I 
goofed the utility will let you know. =)

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 6

=item B<-c>, B<--conf>

Specify the full path and name of the grist configuration file. 

Default is: /usr/local/etc/grist.conf

=item B<-p>, B<--pretend>

Will prevent any modifications from beign made to the database. Only applies to operations which would 
alter the database other commands will simply ignore it.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Will cause B<gristool> to print various messages to the screen throughout the course of execution. This
option is usually only useful for troubleshooting.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

B<Gristool> has serveral modes of operation which are accessable through command subsets. Below is a list
of commands that are currently implemented and a detailed look at thier usage.

=head2 prune AGE <dead-requests>

=over 6

The B<prune> command is used to remove request records from the greylist database. 

All requests older than or equal to B<AGE> will be removed from the database. B<AGE> may be specified as 
seconds, minutes, hours, or days by appending 's', 'm', 'h' or 'd' as a value hint. 

Examples of valid B<AGE> values:

=over 6

	45d	translates to 45 days or <xxx> seconds
	3h	translates to 3 hours or <xxx> seconds
	45m	translates to 45 minutes or <xxx> seconds
	100s	translates to 100 seconds

=back

An B<AGE> value without a trailing 's', 'm', 'h' or 'd' is considered invalid.

If B<dead-requests> is specified only records which have a seen count of zero are removed from the
database. 

=back

=head2 check FIELD VALUE

=over 6

The B<check> command allows you to query the greylist database on one field for an exact value match
and display the results to the console. 

It is planned to extend the functionality of this command to allow for similar matching and querying
on multiple fields. In addition other commands for more complex analysis queries are on the drawing
board. 

Valid B<FIELD> values are:

	from|sender	
	to|recipient
	ip|sourceip
	host|hostname

Examples:

=over 6
	
To seach for all requests sent from joe@mydomain.com:

=over 6

B<gristool check from joe@mydomain.com>

=back

To search for all requests for maria@herdomain.com:

=over 6

B<gristool check to maria@herdomain.com>

=back

=back

The output of this command is very self explainatory i will discuss it later.. maybe.

=head1 GREYLIST DATABASE MAINTAINCE

When implementing a greylisting solution for a high traffic mail server the greylist database will grow very quickly. 
Even for low traffic mail servers the database will require regular pruning though hourly might be excessive.
It is recommended that you schedule B<gristool> to run at regular intervals using a schedualing daemon such as
B<cron> to remove any requests which are considered 'dead'.

An example B<cron> entry to run B<gristool> every hour and remove all dead request records older than 5 
hours would be as follows:

=over 6

0 * * * * /usr/local/bin/gristool prune 5h dead-requests

=back

It is also recommended that you schedule a monthly run to remove all records over a specific age. 

An example B<cron> entry to run B<gristool> once a month and remove all request records older than 30 days would 
be as follows:

=over 6

* * 1 * * /usr/local/bin/gristool prune 30d

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

TODO

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

TODO

=head1 COPYRIGHT

TODO

=head1 SEE ALSO

TODO


